Hey there, I'm Max and last month I
helped generate over $9 million just
from email marketing for my e-commerce
brand partners. And in this video, I'm
going to be giving you a full beginners
course on how to set up email marketing
for your e-commerce store and doing a
deep dive into Claio as the email
marketing platform. Whether you're
launching a new store and just getting
started or you're scaling an existing
store, email marketing is an absolute
non-negotiable. It is your retention
engine. It is your silent salesman and
it's your highest ROI marketing channel.
Email marketing is pennies compared to
Facebook ads. In email marketing, you
get to target people who already know,
like, and trust you. That's why it is
the highest ROI platform on the planet.
Now, in the next few minutes, I'm going
to walk you through everything you need
to know to get started with Clavio email
marketing, which is the go-to platform
for e-commerce email marketing and how
to set it up the right way. Now, why
should you really be focusing on email
in 2025 and 2026? I see brands that
spend six figure a month on ads but
still struggle to make a profit. Why is
that? It is because they are neglecting
their backend, which is with email and
SMS, which is how you educate wary site
visitors into actual buyers. And it's
how you turn one-time buyers into
multi-time buyers. And the brands that
we're working with are generating an
average of 30 to 50% of their total
e-commerce revenue just from the email
channel. And if your email channel isn't
doing at least 20%, then you're leaving
some revenue on the table cuz this stuff
scales. So, let's just zoom out a
second. Imagine you're a skincare brand
and this person has seen so many
skincare brands. They're seeing an
average of 170 different ads every
single day, but they happen to click one
of your ads and go to your website. With
all the options off there, do you think
they are just going to buy the first
time they visit your site? Probably not.
But imagine if we have a pop-up form
which gives them an enticing offer and
an engaging layout and we're able to get
their email address and stand out from
competitors by educating them and
inspiring them to take action about our
brand. Cuz the truth is, if somebody
doesn't buy on your website right away,
that's okay, cuz email is going to give
us multiple chances to actually get them
to buy. And unlike ads, email isn't
limited by any sort of algorithm
changes, and it's not at risk of
Zuckerberg raising prices whenever he
wants. Email is your owned channel. You
control the messaging, the timing, the
segmenting, all the follow-up, and you
don't got to worry about anything. So,
all right, enough with that. Let's get
tactical. For setting up your email
marketing, I don't recommend you use any
other platform besides Clavio. I'm not
paid to say this or anything. Claio is
just the best when it's specifically for
e-commerce. Don't overthink this. You
could look at all these other options,
but at some point if you reach a certain
level of scale with your business,
you're going to be switching to Claio.
So, just start with Claio. Now, setting
up Claio is super easy. Literally just
go to claio.com and all you have to do
is enter your website, sign up for an
account. If you're using Shopify, just
add the Claio app. Just like that. Boom.
You got Claio set up. So, this is what
Claio looks like on the inside. I just
have a dummy account here. So you can
see that there's no revenue coming in,
but everything that you need to get your
account set up, if you just go to home
and then account alerts right here in
the onboarding checklist, which it'll
show for a new account. All you have to
do is go through those steps. It's going
to have you set up a brand and email.
It's going to have you set up all the
requirements like demark, which is just
like advanced stuff, but they walk you
through it step by step. So I don't want
to waste too much time going through
this because their documents and
everything inside your Clavia once you
go to this home screen, it's going to be
there for you to complete. So once we
have all those basics set up, we can
actually creating some of our email
infrastructure. Now there are a couple
main aspects of email marketing that we
need to cover. One of them is going to
be your signup forms. So exactly how you
get people onto your email list. We need
to talk about our flows which are going
to be the automated emails which are
going to trigger after a customer does a
specific action on your website such as
abandons a cart. And then we also have
campaigns which are the onetime emails
that you're blasting out to the list
like a Memorial Day sale. So that's
everything that we're going to go over
today. So, if we start off here, we can
see campaigns, which is this is what
houses the one-time emails that you're
sending out to the list. And then you
have flows right over here. So, the
automated emails, you have reviews if
you do reviews with Claio. You have the
signup forms right here. So, think like
pop-up forms to getting email addresses.
There's just like growth strategies, so
like information, but I don't really
touch that. Then you have audience. So,
you have lists and segments. And then
you have profiles. So profiles right
here is what's going to be all of your
email addresses that you've collected.
Then list and segments are just
different ways for you to segment
people. Then we have different forms of
content such as our templates, images
and brand. And of course we have
analytics. Once you have numbers coming
in, you can look at the different
dashboards and metrics that Clavio has
to offer. But we're just going to start
off with the bare minimum and we are
going to talk about signup forms. This
is the most important thing that you
need to set up when you're starting off
with email marketing is getting people
to actually join your email list. So, if
we click on to sign up forms right here,
you can see that I have different
templates right here inside this dummy
account. So, to create a new form, you
need to make sure you're able to add
forms to your website just like this. If
you click on right here, it'll walk you
through steps on making sure that you
have on-site tracking on your account,
which allows you to be able to actually
have your sign up. If you have Shopify,
this should already be connected for
you, but you have to make sure you have
that. And then we can actually create
our forms right here. So, Claio gives us
a ton of different templates that we can
go off of for our different forms. They
actually just added spin to win. So if
you want to do spin to wins, that's
something that you can do. You can also
have multiple steps to gather somebody's
phone number or whatever you want. My
favorite template is this one right
here. Just nice and simple. Grow your
email and SMS list. So if we go right
here, we can name it test video. And
then you're going to put in the list
that you want these people to join. So I
do newsletter. And then SMS subscribers,
they're going to join the SMS
subscribers newsletter. Once we create
form, it is just going to upload right
into here. And boom. This is our signup
form builder. We have the different
steps up here. So, we have the teaser,
which is going to be this little box
here, which you can adjust to different
things however you want. You can
actually delete this if you want. And
then you have the different steps like
the email optin and then the SMS optin
and then the success page right here.
The first thing that I'm going to do
though is start it off here on the left
side. If you click into styles, you can
adjust the popup such as the size of it,
what sort of a it is, whether it's full
page or a flyyout, something like that,
or just like a plain popup like this.
the different sizes, what sort of images
you want. Maybe you don't want an image
and you just want it to be this
background color, background image, all
this sort of stuff you can update. And
then you can also do targeting and
behavior right here, which is going to
be how is this form actually firing. So,
typically for forms, what I like to do
is just do a time delay. So, typically I
like to do just like 4 seconds after
somebody loads their page, we're going
to use this pop-up form. We don't want
to fire it instantly cuz the person
hasn't even seen any information about
your website. But we don't want to wait
30 seconds because most people that are
visiting your website are only going to
be there for 5 to 10 seconds. So we want
to make sure we're getting as many
people as possible without firing that
form instantly. So I like to just do 4
seconds. Remove this scroll. Remove the
exit intent cuz sometimes that can fire
improperly. And right here we have it at
4 seconds. And then right here after
visitor closes the form, don't show this
form again after 5 days. Display on both
mobile and desktop. If you just want to
make it mobile exclusive or desktop
exclusive, then you can also do that.
And then click outside form to close,
you can cancel that. Just essentially
forces somebody to click this X button
rather than clicking outside this form
and it'll close that form. So there's
the display. You can change the
targeting if you want automatically.
It's just not going to show to anybody
who's already on your email list. But
you could have it show to anybody,
whatever you want here. You can also
change if you only want the pop-up to
show on certain parts of your page. But
I'd just keep it simple just with what
it already is. And now we can kind of
adjust this form for what we want. We
have a desktop form and then we have
mobile right here. Ideally, I like to
make separate forms for mobile and
desktop. So, in this instance right
here, we're going to have this form be
our mobile form cuz that's what 80% of
people are going to view. So, I'm going
to change the targeting right here to
just be mobile. So, right here with this
form, maybe I want to make it a little
bit taller. Change the minimum height to
something like a,000. And then we can
see it gets a lot bigger right here.
Limited time. I could say usually a
wording that I see work best with uh
pop-up forms is you've got 10% off. So
rather than saying take XYZ discount, if
you say you've got psychologically it
feels like the customer already has that
discount and by closing out they lose
that discount. So I'd probably do
something like this. Change the size to
be a little bit bigger and then remove
all other copy because any extra copy
that you add is going to increase the
likelihood that they close out of the
form. So you can say you've got 10% off.
You can change these buttons and make
them bigger. Just play around with it
and have some fun. This is a form that I
typically like to do. I make this full
page. We say, "Take 10% off your first
order or you've got 10% off your first
order." Big button right here. Claim 10%
off. Kind of advanced. What I did is I
made a button with a white background
that says, "No thanks. I'll pay it full
price." And so that person is forced to
click that button and be like, "No, I
don't want this discount." And then it
goes to SMS and we say, "Finish signing
up for 10% off. Claim now or no thanks.
I'll pay it full price." And then the
success page just start shopping right
here. And that's my favorite layout, but
do whatever you want and test it out. So
that's a little bit on signup forms and
how you can grow your list. You can just
turn those live, create a mobile
version, create a desktop version. So
now you have people joining the list.
Now we need to set up our email
automations. So a flow like the welcome
flow, which is going to fire whenever
somebody joins our email list. Somebody
signs up for that pop-up form. What
emails are we going to send them? We're
going to want the welcome flow. And at
minimum, we're going to also want the
checkout abandoned flow. Somebody goes
to checkout and then leaves, we're going
to want the cart abandoned flow and then
maybe a post-purchase flow. There are
all sorts of other more advanced flows
that you can do and I have other videos
on my channel breaking those down. But
for now, we're just going to start with
kind of like those base ones that we
want to get live. So to set up flows,
all we want to do is go to flows right
here. And then what you can do is you
can create flow and Clavio actually has
a ton of different templates that you
can use to start out or you can build
your own. In this case, we can actually
use one of those templates. So let's
start off with the welcome flow for
email and SMS. So I'd probably do
something like this, like the welcome
series standard. We can just do this for
email and then have it trigger when
somebody joins the newsletter list which
is what is connected to our pop-up form.
Use template and then it is going to
fire this up for us so that we can
create our emails. So right here we can
see the trigger is somebody joins the
newsletter list right here. They have us
sending an email right off the bat.
Thanks for signing up. Waiting a couple
days and then another email and then
waiting 4 days and then doing a check
out our bests sellers. So this is what
the flow builder looks like right here.
What we have is this flow of events and
then you have these different actions
that you can add. So if I want to add
another email, I can slop this in right
here and then set up another email just
by clicking onto this and then selecting
a template if I want to do one and
choosing all my settings, email subject
line, preview text, everything right
there. Typically for the welcome series,
what we want to do in this first email
is remind them of the discount and give
them a little bit of brand information.
So here is like a designed welcome flow
example. If you wanted to do like three
emails, you could see welcome to this
brand. Take 10% off your order with
welcome 10 and then a button. You have a
sub headline with some body copy and
then list some bestsellers right here
and product categories. Follow that up
with a our story email just like this.
Um breaking down the story including
pictures of the brand founders and some
other images and then like your brand
mission statement and don't forget to
use this discount code because it's
expiring soon. And then listing out some
selling points right here. And you can
see using those templates how this could
be done for an example brand right here
like this jewelry brand. Just applying
the branding, putting in the different
images. You can see how professional and
effective this is. So this is inside of
Figma, which is a design tool for
graphic design. And all that we do is we
design these emails. And then if we
wanted to bring these into Clavia, what
we would do is use this slice feature
and slice up our different parts of the
email. Making sure to not do too big
image slices because that's going to be
super large size. usually about 500 in
height right here and then export as an
image and then upload those sections
back into Clavio. That's a bit advanced.
We don't need to talk about that right
now. If we go into Clavio, what we could
do is we could just create plain emails
just based off of the templates that
Claio gives us. So, if we go into edit
right here, we can see there's uh
different images. And this is what the
email builder looks like. You can insert
images right here just by clicking
replace, add like a branded picture,
information about the brand. You can
just edit copy right inside of here
inside of Claio. Edit the size and
everything is right here. It's pretty
straightforward, but you can add in
anything you want inside of Clavio like
your buttons. You can change the sizes
of all of them. You can even add product
sections where it's actually pulling
products from your store as long as you
have it connected correctly. You have
social media links right here.
Everything is just listed out for you.
And then you can delete whatever you
want kind of up here by deleting these
sections. If you want to have a look at
what it looks like on mobile, then you
have that right there. Then boom, you
can adjust and create your emails. Put
your subject lines in here like welcome
to brand, whatever your brand is. And
then preview text uh is going to be what
shows up under the subject line with
something like we're so happy to have
you. Here's your discount. And then the
person has to open to receive their
discount. And then we can wait however
long we want. I typically like to do
just one day for example, just right
here. 1 day to then hit them with the
next message and then one day for the
email after that. Clavio has a template
right here. I usually like to do a brand
story email as the next one here. So, we
can go in here and type up some
information about the brand story, add
any images that you want, and then for
the last email, doing something like why
we stand out and kind of a last chance
on your discount. That's a super quick,
easy, and simple welcome flow that you
can implement. Now, the next flow we
want to talk about is something like the
abandoned checkout flow. If somebody
goes to checkout and then doesn't
complete their purchase, again, we can
create a flow template inside of Clavio
just by looking up the checkout abandon
or actually Clavio calls it a cart
abandon. So, we can go into the flows
right here and browse by gold, prevent
lost sales, and look at these different
flows that they have set up. So, we have
abandoned cart reminders. We have two
kind of like main ones right here. We
have one that's added to cart trigger
and then one that's an abandoned cart
reminder. But, if we click onto this, we
can see that the trigger is checkout
started. So, Clavio actually has a big
mistake here cuz this is actually
abandoned checkout. So, that's what I'm
going to name this and then we're going
to create this. But typically, we're
going to want again the welcome flow,
the checkout abandon are the two main
flows that we want. Then we also have
cart abandon, browse abandoned, if
somebody views a product and then
leaves. Then we want post purchase once
somebody buys a product thanking them
for their order. And then something like
a win back flow if somebody bought 6
months ago reminding them to come back
and buy from us. So that's the flow side
of things. The last thing we kind of
want to touch on is the campaigns, which
the campaigns are the onetime emails
that you're sending out to the list. So
that's what the majority of these
emails, which we see in my inbox, are
going to be like this restock alert from
this brand. This is something that's not
going to be automated. This is something
that's set in stone. So we have this as
an example. Free stake is back from
ButcherBox right here. And we can see
this is the email that they did. These
are the sort of emails that come from
campaigns. And so with campaigns, once
we're in this tab, we can just create a
campaign. We could say restock. We can
have it an email, SMS, or whatever we
want. We click continue. And then we
have the audience. So this is where all
of our lists and segments are going to
come up. So we can see our lists and
then we can see our different segments.
So typically we just want to be sending
emails to our engaged segments, which
this is a segment which I can show you
how to set up. It's essentially anybody
who has opened our emails cuz we don't
want to send emails to people who don't
want to receive our emails. We just want
to send them to engaged people. So I'm
going to click engage 60. You can see on
this list there are 2,300 people. So
that's how many people we're going to be
sending to. So we click on to next. And
then we have different templates that we
can use. We have the subject line and
the preview text. So let's say this was
a restock. And then I could say
something like restock new favorites as
the subject line and then preview text.
These went fast last time. Dot dot dot.
And that could be the subject line and
preview text. And now we could actually
get to creating the email and designing
it. We can go to email library right
here if we wanted to use some of their
templates and try to edit based on their
templates or we could start from scratch
just like this and go back into this
email builder which typically this works
just fine. Just have a logo right here
of your logo and then you can drop in
like a text box right here and then
write whatever you want for the email.
Then you can edit right in here and then
you can also add your buttons. So say
you write some copy uh maybe we want to
include an image right here. We write
some copy on whatever we want and then
shop now right here. Then once we're all
set, we can go. Looks like it lost my
subject line and preview text. But once
we're all ready to go, I'll just fill
this in right here. Then you click on
next. You can see everything kind of
summed up for you. And then you can
schedule your email or send it right
here. And it's really just that simple.
So to create those segments, all we want
to do is go to audience list and
segments. We can create our segments,
the different parts of our list that we
want to send to. And this is what the
segment builder looks like. is where you
can get all sorts of data about our
customers. So I could create an engaged
60 days list right here. And what I
would do is I would choose the
conditions what somebody has done. And
then we choose the metric. So in this
case I want to do somebody has opened
email at least once in the past 60 days.
And if I create the segment then it's
going to start finding people in this
segment. And then it's just going to
show up right here. And you can even
click right here and look at how many
people have done that. You can see all
these other segments that I have. So,
persons placed order in the past 36
hours. We can see people who have viewed
a product but they've placed no orders.
Unengaged people, so people who have
received at least five emails but
they've opened email zero times and
they've clicked email zero times. People
who have bounced in the past 10 days.
All sorts of different stuff you can do
with your segments. Typically, the main
segment that we're going to want to send
to is the engaged 60 days. Now, I want
to highlight a couple videos on my
channel which will help answer a lot
more of your questions if you have them.
This is an 8 hour free course going over
like a lot of the strategy for Claio and
email marketing which is a ton of value
and so I'd recommend that if you're kind
of starting from nothing. If you want to
learn about all the email flows that I
talked about and the strategy behind
them and templates behind all the
automations then there's this video
right here. If you want to see me
actually write emails and design them
here's a 47minute video of me writing
three emails for Gym Shark and then
designing them and then uploading them
to Claio for them to be sent. There's
also email marketing segments. So the
main segments there's this video here.
You get the point. If there's anything
you're confused about, then there's tons
of stuff right here. Literally
everything that you need can be found
for free on my channel. So, that wraps
it up with this video. Hope you got some
value and let me know if you have any
specific questions or anything that you
can't find on my channel and I'll make
make some videos on that. Thank you so
much and I'll see you in the next